Reviewer 4 of CCTA 2023 submission 211

Comments to the author
======================

The paper proposes a method to map typical tire friction
utilization in a road network. The proposed method uses a
traffic simulator to generate common vehicle kinematic
trajectories. Friction information is obtained by using the
kinematic trajectories as references for a position
controlled dynamic vehicle model.

While the method is potentially interesting to analyze the
safety of road networks, the presentation does not do
justice to the work.
More worringly, results seem to match common sense
qualitatively, but not quantitatively.
Furthermore, the proposed tool usefulness is not
highlighted in the presented results.

In the following, I report comments for each section.

I) Introduction
The usefulness of the generated likely friction utilization
is not clearly outlined.
For example: how would it be useful in warning human
drivers? Would it be used by the regulatory agencies to
impose stricter speed limits? If so, it would help
regulatory agencies, not drivers.
Would this analysis be performed during the design phase of
roads? If not, when? I understand the exploitation of the
map is not the focus of the paper but a more punctual
contextualization is necessary. 

“Specifically, it is an assumption of this work and of
federal roadway design guides [19] that, to avoid skidding
or spinning out, the friction margin:” is this an
assumption? Isn't this the physical behavior of
vehicles/models of vehicles?

The literature analysis is not clearly connected to the
presented work.
A relevant amount of time is spent discussing major causes
of accidents, without highlighting why this is relevant to
the presented work. Similarly, a specific ADAS system (ISA)
is presented in detail, but it’s not clear how this is
affected by the presented work. These are examples that
show how friction estimates can be used, but do not present
the innovative contributions of the paper, nor highlight
topics not addressed by the literature.

The conclusion argues that there is a lack of literature
that discusses what to do if friction estimates are wrong,
however this is not proven by the presented literature. No
mention is given to robust vehicle dynamics control
approaches.
The case of loss of connection with a friction database is
presented as an issue solved by this work, but the proposed
method cannot run online on the vehicle and thus needs a
connection to download such map, which is effectively a
database.

Deeply revising this section is fundamental for the
comprehension of the article and its contribution.




II) Methods
From the introduction it is not clear why a traffic
simulation is needed. Why can’t a simulation with a single
vehicle be used to evaluate maximum friction utilization?
I am guessing that this allows to statistically predict
where accelerations and decelerations occur (if this is the
case, this is not clearly presented).
Does the simulator give more insight into these conditions
with respect to common sense predictions? (i.e. a traffic
simulator is not necessary to predict that braking actions
will frequently be taken in the vicinity of traffic lights
while accelerations on highway ramps).

The OSM acronym is never defined.

If possible, cite the work related to the development of
the traffic simulator and its calibration instead of just
mentioning the authors.

"This was an involved process that is the topic of a
concurrent paper."
I suggest some level of explanation is given on this
process, as this would help to make the paper more self
contained and to easily understand it.

When presenting the models employed it is stated that the
3DOF model directly controls the wheel slip, which however
is not present in the presented equations.
Rather, equation (5) shows torque inputs.
I am guessing the model with torque inputs is the 7 DOF
one.
No detail is given on which model is used to represent the
slip-force relationship, which is fundamenteal, given the
nature of this work.

“only reference vehicle trajectories that had no lane
changes were analyzed” why was this choice made?

What is a section ID ?

III) Results
Results only show examples of results that match common
sense. It would however be interesting to see results
providing more insight. Is this tool capable of
highlighting unexpected dangers?
For example: was the road section in Figure 7 predictably
dangerous?
The analysis of Figure 3, as presented, seems to suggest
that the method is not capable of representing realistic
dynamics in some contexts, like stop signs and traffic
lights.
More details should be given on the reasons and the effects
of this shortcomings.